
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DIKW_pyramid

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russell_L._Ackoff

Russell Ackoff's knowledge pyramid

Data
Data is raw.
It simply exists and has no significance beyond its existence (in and of itself).
It can exist in any form, usable or not.
It does not have the meaning of itself.
In computer parlance, a spreadsheet generally starts out by holding data.

Information
Information is data that has been given meaning by way of relational connection.
This "meaning" can be useful but does not have to be.
In computer parlance, a relational database makes information from the data stored within it.

Knowledge
Knowledge is the appropriate collection of information, such that it's intent is to be useful.
Knowledge is a deterministic process.
When someone "memorizes" information (as less-aspiring test-bound students often do), then they have amassed knowledge.
This knowledge has useful meaning to them, but it does not provide for, in and of itself, an integration such as would infer further knowledge.
For example, elementary school children memorize, or amass knowledge of, the "times table".
They can tell you that "2 x 2 = 4" because they have amassed that knowledge (it is included in the time table).
But when asked what is "1267 x 300", they can not respond correctly because that entry is not in their times' table.
To correctly answer such a question requires a true cognitive and analytical ability that is only encompassed in the next level ... insights.
In computer parlance, most of the applications we use (modelling, simulation, etc.) exercise some type of stored knowledge.

Insights
Insights is an interpolative and probabilistic process.
It is cognitive and analytical.
It is the process by which you can take the knowledge and synthesize new knowledge from the previously held knowledge.
The difference between understanding and knowledge is the difference between "learning" and "memorizing".
People who have understanding can undertake useful actions because they can synthesize new knowledge, or in some cases, at least new information, from what is previously known (and understood).
That is, understanding can build upon currently held information, knowledge and understanding itself.
In computer parlance, AI systems possess understanding in the sense that they are able to synthesize new knowledge from previously stored information and knowledge.

Wisdom
Wisdom is an extrapolative and non-deterministic, non-probabilistic process.
It seeks to give us understanding about which there has previously been no understanding.
Unlike the previous four levels, it asks questions to which there often is no easily-achievable answer.
Wisdom is the process by which we discern, or judge, between right and wrong, good and bad.
